README.md, before:

# updipogo

This was an idea to combine a tiny board with [pogo pins](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005002667659397.html) (spring-loaded probes) on one end and a cheap [CH340N USB-to-UART chip](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/USB-ICs_WCH-Jiangsu-Qin-Heng-CH340N_C2977777.html) on the other end, to build an [UPDI programmer](https://github.com/SpenceKonde/AVR-Guidance/blob/master/UPDI/jtag2updi.md). The idea stems from a [Pnoxi AVR-ISP Pogo][https://www.tindie.com/products/pnoxi/avr-isp-pogo-pin-adapter-2x3-idc2x3-pogo-254mm/], which I use for programming older AVRs.

![](images/v2/top_on.jpg)

![](images/v2/bottom.jpg)

### Programming Pads

The pogo footprint uses a somewhat dense pitch of 1.6 mm so that programming pads on future boards could require minimal space. The underside has footprints to add pins with standard 2.54 mm pitch or even a "normal" header, though.

![](images/pads.png)

Add small 0.4 mm vias in the middle of the three programming pads if you can to give the spearhead tips something to fall into.

### Make Your Own

* Install [`kikit`](https://github.com/yaqwsx/KiKit)
* Run `make gerbers.zip`
* Order your PCBs
* Check the [interactive BOM](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fansemjo%2Fupdipogo%2Fblob%2Fmain%2Fibom.html=) to see which part goes where

### Alternatives

[Stefan Wagner lists a lot of possible UPDI programmer alternatives](https://github.com/wagiminator/AVR-Programmer). Those include voltage switching, HV capable programmers and `jtag2updi`-compatible ones.

Commit message:

add errata about switching resistor for diode

README.md, after:

# updipogo

This was an idea to combine a tiny board with [pogo pins](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005002667659397.html) (spring-loaded probes) on one end and a cheap [CH340N USB-to-UART chip](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/USB-ICs_WCH-Jiangsu-Qin-Heng-CH340N_C2977777.html) on the other end, to build an [UPDI programmer](https://github.com/SpenceKonde/AVR-Guidance/blob/master/UPDI/jtag2updi.md). The idea stems from a [Pnoxi AVR-ISP Pogo][https://www.tindie.com/products/pnoxi/avr-isp-pogo-pin-adapter-2x3-idc2x3-pogo-254mm/], which I use for programming older AVRs.

![](images/v2/top_on.jpg)

![](images/v2/bottom.jpg)

**Note:** It may be worthwhile to replace the 4.7 kΩ resistor with a diode instead. Or at least, use a smaller resistor in the range of 1–2 kΩ. [See errata](ERRATA.md#updipogo_v2).

### Programming Pads

The pogo footprint uses a somewhat dense pitch of 1.6 mm so that programming pads on future boards could require minimal space. The underside has footprints to add pins with standard 2.54 mm pitch or even a "normal" header, though.

![](images/pads.png)

Add small 0.4 mm vias in the middle of the three programming pads if you can to give the spearhead tips something to fall into.

### Make Your Own

* Install [`kikit`](https://github.com/yaqwsx/KiKit)
* Run `make gerbers.zip`
* Order your PCBs
* Check the [interactive BOM](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fansemjo%2Fupdipogo%2Fblob%2Fmain%2Fibom.html=) to see which part goes where

### Alternatives

[Stefan Wagner lists a lot of possible UPDI programmer alternatives](https://github.com/wagiminator/AVR-Programmer). Those include voltage switching, HV capable programmers and `jtag2updi`-compatible ones.
